When the Gods reneged on their promises and abandoned the world one by one until only Fyfrii remained, the faith of the mortal races began to waver. It was only through the proselytizing efforts of the [[Urzithan Concordat]] that any semblance of religion was maintained. Despite the withdrawal of the [[God]]s and their refusal to answer prayers directly as they had always done, Clerics retained their divine powers and could even draw on new strength as their prowess grew. Solassian theologians reasoned that the mortal races had been entrusted with stewardship of the world - the Gods must have left simply because of their utmost faith in those they had left behind. 

Nevertheless, the resulting faith vacuum enabled the rise of numerous false divine pretenders: extraordinarily powerful individuals who claimed to be Gods. These pretenders were especially prolific in the Concordat, for the political emphasis placed on faith would guarantee that any successful claimant to a divine throne would also seize immense temporal power. Sometimes, pretenders would organize themselves into facsimiles of holy pantheons in order to bolster the legitimacy of their respective claims, dividing Domains between themselves roughly according to the powers that they each brought to the table. 

One such group, a cohort comprised of Kotheia, Boros, Min'thai, Ramon Tek, and Amistelus, called themselves the New Gods. They were remarkably patient, meeting only in secret for two decades, lying in wait for an opportune moment to stake their claims. Finally, When Fyfrii was imprisoned beneath the world by the [[St책lr책d]], the Solassians were thrown into political and religious chaos, and the New Gods struck like vultures to a fresh corpse. They announced themselves as the legitimate reincarnations of the five departed Gods, and vowed to lead their fellows in rescuing their fallen brother from the clutches of the St책lr책d. This opportunistic power grab succeeded for a time as desperate worshipers flocked to their banner, and the brief period of unification allowed the [[Urzithan Concordat]] to launch a series of early failed assaults on Fyfrii's prison. 

It seemed that the New Gods were not meant to be, however. When [[High Prophet Zal'rek]] regained control of the Empire, he denounced the New Gods as heretics, traitors, and enemies of the state. The brief but devastating civil war that ensued ended with the New Gods' defeat, and they were given a life sentence to be served out inside the Solassian's astroid prison, [[Bar'duum]]. 

When the Solassian Concordat executed its final, desperate contingency plan and shattered the barriers separating the material world from the elemental planes, the ensuing elemental chaos drastically empowered the already impressive abilities of [[Kotheia]] and [[Min'thai]]. Together they were able to defeat the Pit [[Fiend]] jailers of Bar'duum and crash the floating prison into [[Dawn's Light]], freeing their fellows and any other prisoners that could survive the impact. The New Gods were not able to break free of their confines entirely, however. Even after they stepped forth from the rubble of Dawn's Light, they still carried with them remnants of their supposedly inescapable prison in the form of unbreakable chains, permanent silence spells, and compelling geases. The New Gods were neutered, and were not seen again for the short-lived remainder of the Great War.

When they emerged from their hiding places following the Devastation, the New Gods looked upon the shattered world and their annihilated civilization and finally saw their true purpose. They would be the heralds of the fresh dawn, picking up the broken pieces of the world that was and forging a new one in their own images. This time, they would not need to pretend to be reincarnations of the old Gods. This time, they would be the only Gods that mattered.