Obzidon was an avid proponent of a fanatical individualist philosophy which emphasized personal autonomy and success through private effort, and like many of his fellows, he denounced the use of [[Magic|magic]] in all its forms. As an inventor, his research was focused on tools which would empower the common man to do what he could otherwise not, and his dream was to live in a world in which spellcasters were no better than anyone else.

During [[The Last War|the Great War]], the Technolord's envy of the arts only grew. No matter how prosperous and efficient the [[Stålråd]] became, they would never achieve the individual power and freedom of action conferred by mystical prowess. He resolved to solve this issue through his research, and in less than a century he made significant strides in the areas of neurology, electromagnetism and psionics. He linked his mind with man-made tools that could replicate the effects of magic, creating armour that could repel physical force, staves that exerted telekinetic energy, and headgear that could convey complex orders to a variety of automatons.

With the equipment he developed, Technolord Obzidon became a force to be reckoned with, able to stand toe to toe against the best of the [[Solassian Concordat]]'s Wizards, Clerics, Sorcerers and Druids. When [[The Last Legion]] assaulted Altena, he fought valiantly in its defence, falling only when [[Halion Kal]]'s engineers overloaded the city's reactor network. The resulting singularity annihilated his frail form, but not before he watched on in horror as the reborn Last Legion emerged from the black hole, witnessing in his final hour a testament to the power of magic. Obzidon's personal equipment supposedly survived the carnage, and some post-wars scholars argue the possibility that the shattered remains of his psyche remain strewn out among the ruined constructs he controlled at the time