The Great War unleashed untold horrors upon the world as both sides continually escalated their armaments programs, and over time the combat role of mere mortal men shifted from active participant to unfortunate victim. Few had the fortitude of will and raw power required to fight in a war meant for eldritch fiends and colossal titans. Through it all, The Last Legion stood tall. It consisted of the [[Solassian Concordat]]'s most formidable battle-mages, and any one of them would have laid down their lives in the name of the Concordat without a moment's hesitation. The Legion owed their mental fortitude in large part to the magical mental link imprinted upon each member upon initiation, which also guaranteed perfect execution of tactical maneuvers and granted every soldier a near omniscient view of the battlefield. The Last Legion acted as both an assembly of highly skilled individuals and as a cohesive hive mind. They could not be betrayed, they could not be tricked, and as far as anyone could tell, their wills could not be broken.

But even the infamous Last Legion could not have been prepared for what awaited them at [[Altena]], the City of Rain. The city's defenses were penetrated after a week-long battle, and the Legion cut a bloody swathe through the populace, ensuring that there would be no survivors. Once they reached the city center, [[Halion Kal]] ordered the Altenan engineers to overload the reactor system beneath the city. The resulting singularity brought Altena to its knees as reality collapsed in on itself, and the city itself became nothing more than a colossal crater. The living and the dead alike were drawn into a single point, and the soundscape was littered with the crushing of bones into dust and the rapid exodus of blood from bodies. It seemed that The Last Legion had died with the City of Rain and all its inhabitants.

In the depths of the singularity, the five thousand mentally linked minds of the Last Legion resisted the ravages of extreme gravity through sheer force of will. Even as their bodies were annihilated, their minds persisted as a single operational unit. At long last, the Legion was completely united, and the resulting strength of this entity enabled it to reach outside of the singularity and pull itself free. The Last Legion emerged from the single massive point in space, its new form forged in the likeness of a heavily armoured ceremonial warrior, and its garb constructed from a destiny manifested. The [[Stålråd]]'s gambit had succeeded in slaughtering five thousand mortal men, but they soon found that the resulting being was almost as difficult to contend with.