**Events**
1. The party enters [[Forsyning]]'s vault, activating its primary defenses: an enormous [[Stålråd]] [[Warforged]] with a revolving rocket launcher and a drill. [[Lilith]] uses the primary defense terminal to enter commands they found written in blood on the walls to begin the automaton's meltdown sequence, while [[Gilgamesh]] and [[Akira]] lead it on a wild chase throughout the mainframe room while it destroys itself.
2. The party loots Forsyning's vault. They discover a circular disc in a pleasant case, and a heavy hectogonal metal object with some handles. They assume the latter to be a [[nuclear]] core.
3. They backtrack and peer into a room full of severely overgrown sentient [[plants]] that have taken over the entire room with their vegetation. Gilgamesh throws in a lit torch, setting fire to the entire area and burning the plants to ash. The party finds seeds they assume to grow the plants they just killed, as well as a metal wall that appears to have been turned into mulch and partially consumed. They take a bag of the seeds and a bag of the mulch.
4. The party returns to the settlement they met at, [[Hospice]], to trade what they can and find new leads. They set up a stall in [[Hospice#The Offering Skin|the Offering Skin]] and try to entice a [[Vurum-Khal]]. Their trade skills are lacking, and they end up being approached by many others before getting the deal they want.
	1. [[Barnoldus]] and his adventurers approach asking for help looting a nearby battlefield of [[Warforged]] limbs to trade with the Collectors. The party agrees, in exchange for a cut.
	2. A Collector named [[Sabit]] approaches. Sabit has no limbs and is affixed to the back of her subservient Cyclops, [[Brutus]]. Sabit is in search of adventure, so the party offers her a full set of Warforged limbs as well as an opportunity to join them on their current mission. Sabit agrees, and in exchange offers to have her house technologist identify the party's metallic disc, octogonal device, Power Armor, and laser rifle.
	3. An old man approaches asking for help defending his village from an incoming [[Screamer|Scream]]. The party agrees, and convinces Barnoldus to take them there before the battlefield, in exchange for a cut of any Screamer limbs.
	4. Firetta, leader of a scavenger crew approaches, asking for help retrieving a [[Colossus]]' eye from [[Finality]]. The party refuses, having their hands full already, but indicate they'd like to speak to her again next time.
	5. A Collector with all limbs intact, Tirigan, approaches. He is particularly interested in [[The Devil's Hand]], a legendary artifact supposedly still affixed to a [[Fiend]] in [[Bar'duum]]. The party declines to go after it for now. Tirigan receives a sample of the party's superseeds and metal mulch in exchange for [[Zid-Nam-Tul]], the blazing sword.