When it’s a given participant’s turn in combat, they can take their action. There are four different kinds of actions in combat or other time-sensitive situations. 
## Main Actions
Main Actions are actions that take up most of the actor’s round. [[Attacking]] someone, manipulating some device, applying first aid to a downed ally, casting a spell, or other complex actions that would take several seconds to perform are all Main Actions. A participant gets one Main Action every round. 
## Move Actions
Move Actions involve moving up to the participant’s normal movement rate. Thus, a normal human with a movement rate of 30 feet can move up to that distance with a Move action. Climbing, swimming, crossing difficult terrain, or other challenging movement usually is only half as fast as normal combat movement. A participant gets one Move action per round, though they can also choose to spend their Main Action taking an additional Move action if they wish. 

A combatant in melee who moves away from their enemy must take a *Fighting Withdrawal* action or suffer a free Instant attack from all enemies in melee with them. A Move action must spend all its movement at once; it cannot split it around a Main Action. Thus, it’s not possible to move 10 feet, shoot a foe with a Main Action, and then dive another 20 feet behind cover. 
## On Turn Actions
On Turn Actions are quick, simple acts that take very little time and focus to perform, such as falling prone, saying a few words, a skilled archer reloading a bow from a Readied quiver, drawing out a Readied object, or similar things. A participant can only perform an On Turn ac tion on their own turn, but they can do as many of them as the GM thinks is reasonable. 
## Instant Actions
Instant Actions are so fast and simple that the participant can use them at any time, even when it’s not their turn. They can even use them after the dice have been rolled, delaying their use until they’re sure the action is needed. Instant actions are generally related to special powers and abilities, like a [[Warrior]]’s [[Warrior#Class Ability Veteran's Luck|Veteran's Luck]] class ability or certain magical arts. If multiple Instant actions are triggered at the same time, they execute in whatever order the GM thinks is most reasonable. There is no lim it to the number of Instant actions a participant can take. 

The combat section includes a list of common combat activities and their respective action types. If a PC wants to do something different, the GM should simply pick an action type for it that seems to make sense.