## Rounds
Combat and other time-sensitive situations are broken into rounds, each of which is roughly six seconds in length. During a round every participant gets to take a turn, after which a new round begins.
## Initiative
The order of action is determined by Initiative. To determine initiative, each side rolls 1d8 and adds the highest Dexterity [[Attributes#Attribute Modifiers|modifier]] in the group. NPCs usually have no modifier, unless the GM decides they’re exceptionally quick. The side with the highest roll goes first in whatever order the members choose, and then the other sides act in their respective order. The PC party wins any initiative ties. At the end of the round, it cycles back to the first group and repeats accordingly.

Optionally, some groups prefer to use “individual initiative”, with each participating rolling their own initiative roll and going in order. This takes a little longer and can complicate party plans that require each member to act in a particular sequence, but it also mitigates the risk of the group being overwhelmed by foes before anyone can act. The GM chooses which version to use. 
## Surprise
In some cases a group may be ambushed or surprised by a foe. The more alert the targets, the more difficult it is to ambush them; a group of heroes prowling through a dungeon is going to be much more difficult to surprise than one having dinner in a tavern. Generally, if the group is alert for danger an ambush has to either crash down on them suddenly or come from an angle or location they never suspected. 

If the GM decides that surprise is possible, an [[Skill Checks#Opposed Skill Checks|opposed Wis/Notice versus Dex/Sneak skill check]] should be rolled. If the attackers win, they surprise the targets and get a full round of [[Actions in Combat|action]] to themselves before initiative is rolled and the combat progresses as usual. An ambush might also provoke a Morale check in undisciplined or unmilitary targets at the GM’s discretion.