The various cultures that formed the [[Stålråd]] all faced problems with magic. In some lands, [[Shaman|Shamans]] fought against technological developments in the defense of [[Elemental]] territories. In others, [[Warlock|Warlocks]] wielded fiendish magics used to dominate the bodies and minds of mortal men. But the greatest offense against Stålrådian sensibilities was borne from the very nature of magic itself; the power that magic afforded to [[Spirit|Spirits]] and mages alike elevated them head and shoulders above ordinary mortals, robbing the everyman of his ability to thrive on his own merits and the sweat of his brow.

The city-states of [[Tollard]], [[Eberhar]], and [[Altena]] outlawed magic in its various forms even before being unified under the [[Stålråd]], though the harshness of those laws by region, and some tolerated certain schools or applications of magic. The unification of the [[Solassian Concordat]] and the subsequent proliferation and uplifting of both the magical arts and the influence of the [[Triumvirate]] made it all but impossible for the northerners to maintain control of magic within their own territories.

In response, the central Stålråd government enacted the Anathema Doctrine, a comprehensive piece of legislation that criminalized the use of magic in all its forms both within and without Stålrådian territory. On penalty of death, the Stålrådian people could no longer worship the [[God|Gods]], consort with [[Eidolon|Eidolons]], or learn the [[Magic|Arcane]].

The Anathema Doctrine had little consequence for most Stålrådian citizens, as it only formalized and consolidated cultural dispositions that already existed. The cities lost what little connection they had to magic and Spirits, and those that were already shunned lost their lives. The consequences for external diplomacy, however, were immense; the Solassians would never forgive the Stålråd for their rejection of all that they held dear, and from this simmering arose the beginnings of [[The Last War|the Last War]].