The [[Stålråd]] performed quite well in the simmering stages of the [[The Last War|the Last War]], back when both sides believed technological or magical advancements would eventually bring it to a decisive end. But when such an event failed to transpire, and the conflict broke out into an existential war, the surviving members of the [[Urzithan Concordat]]'s [[Triumvirate]] stepped in to fight for their followers. 

The Stålrådians could not stand against the combined influence of two living [[God]]s, and their refusal to employ arcane or divine magic made direct retaliation impossible. In the face of total annihilation, the Stålråd enacted Operation Oblivion. Their intelligence had informed them that the power of the Gods was tied to the number of mortals exercising the God's portfolio, so they sought to minimize that number.

From their [[Moon]] base, their silos under the ocean, and their satellites in orbit, the Stålråd unleashed their entire nuclear arsenal, not against the Urzithans - for they were under the direct protection of their Gods - but against every other civilization on the globe, who were complicit in the perpetuation of the God's power. Those civilizations, centuries behind the Stålråd in technology, were unable to defend themselves.

The Stålrådian gambit succeeded. With the worship of the Gods cut down to size, the war could continue with each side on a more equal footing. The Urzithans would never forgive the Stålråd for the extraordinary atrocity they had committed, and the world would never recover from the damage done to its crust. From this point on, the Stålråd and the Concordat were alone in the world, trapped in their cataclysmic conflict until the very end.