>"SKREEEEEEEEEEE!"

No matter how refined the process became over the [[The Last War|the Last War]], the act of transferring a sentient mind into a Host Warforged remained wildly expensive. As the [[St책lr책d]]'s need for effective manpower increased and their resources dwindled, they became desperate for cost cutting solutions. Thus, they devised a brand of Host Warforged that could accept a mind transference in under an hour. However, individuals that underwent the procedure soon began reporting problems. They saw phantom images in the edges of their artificial lenses, they smelled rotting flesh on clean air, and there was a constant, infernal ticking in the backs of their minds. The St책lr책d administration downplayed and misreported these concerns, unwilling to pull back on the project. 

As the War pressed on, these new Warforged mentally deteriorated even further, though their bodies remained as robust as ever and their skill in combat remained mostly unaffected. But when the conflict ended they were left without a distraction from the ticking, and they began to scream. They screamed because they had forgotten who they were but still remembered those they had killed, they screamed because all they could see were sick, twisted distortions of reality, and they screamed because the ticking only grew louder, and today they scream because their existences are defined by pain. 

Screamers, as they are called by those in the Dredge, are relentlessly violent and cannot be reasoned with. They travel in sizable groups in search for distractions from the agony. Fortunately, a Screamer attack never truly comes as a surprise. They can be heard from miles away.