The endless sands of the [[Great Desert]] were once populated by a series of petty kingdoms engaged in a constant state of chivalric warfare. Over the centuries, these states would exchange overall feudal dominance with each-other as the balance of power was shifted by political unions, assassinations, and outside influence. However, the kingdoms were unified by a belief in the divine right of Kings, though from exactly which [[God|Gods]] that right derived from varied territoriality.   

Over time, the Kings of the Great Desert found that wars were best won through supernatural means, and began to employ arcane practitioners in both their front-line and support forces. Kingdoms that failed to keep up with this new state of warfare fell rapidly to threats unrecognizable from their shallow perspectives. The resulting political reliance on wielders of the arcane gave magical institutions immense influence over affairs of the state, and eventually, the inferiority of mundane Kings cost them their collective birthrights. This gave rise to an era of terrifying and unaccountable Mage-Kings who justifiably felt that their power came from within rather than without.

This state of affairs was ultimately unbearable for the people of the Great Desert; the Mage-Kings cared little for the plight of the common man, such that they made even the previous monarchies look egalitarian by comparison. Worse still, with political power solely in the hands of the ruling class and with no divine right to rule, the unity of the state was extraordinarily fragile and frequently wracked by crippling rebellions. One such rebellion resulted in the institution of a polytheistic state religion privileging the worship of the gods [[Gond]], [[Vaad]], and [[Salindar]]. In doing so, the ruling class came to rely on the explicit support of the temples, and in this the people of the Great Desert found a common ground to stand on. Key figures from the rebellion signed the Solassian Concordat, and from the ashes of an oppressive magocracy arose a theocracy drawing upon the religious, arcane and feudal traditions alike.