The Mage class is a general header under which all heroes with fundamentally supernatural powers or spellcasting ability are place. Once this class is chosen, the PC must choose a specific arcane tradition to follow; one is a [[High Mage]], or a [[Vowed]], or an [[Elementalist]], for example. 

Not all magical traditions necessarily involve classical [[Magic and Spellcasting|spell-flinging and conjury]]. Some traditions are much more physical in nature, granting the practitioners remarkable bodily prowess or unique magical gifts they can exercise. Some Mage traditions involve no spellcasting at all, restricting their focus entirely to the strange arcane gifts their forebears have developed. 

While these spells and occult powers are impressive, they tend to come at a cost. A Mage must spend so much time focused on their studies and training that they have little time to master any other art. Most are notably weak combatants with little ability to survive hardships that would merely wound or weary a [[Warrior]]. 

In addition to this, many traditions have their own specific limits on practitioners. Initiates of the High Mage tradition, for example, cannot cast their spells while wearing anything heavier than normal clothing, thus making it impossible for them to wear [[Armor|armor]] and still wield their spells. The hindrances of some traditions extend beyond physical limitations to social penalties or difficulties in dealing with mundane humanity; a [[Necromancer]] may have impressive powers of magic, but they are often unwelcome in civilized lands and are sometimes subject to the panicked justice of frightened locals and their lords. 

> [!NOTE] Mages in Sundered
> In the [[Sundered]] universe, the [[Urzithan Concordat]] once had prejudices against the more profane forms of magic, but this fell by the wayside when they resorted to using practically all of them during the [[The Last War|Last War]]. The [[Stålråd]] detested all forms of magic.
> The communities that now survive in [[The Dredge]] each have their own unique stances towards magic, some inspired by these old empires.

Mage heroes need to rely on careful planning and a cooperative party to get the most from their abilities. While potent, the spells they wield are few in number and usually narrow in effect; even the mightiest sorcerer is just not going to be as effective as their Warrior peers in slaying fearsome enemies or their [[Expert]] companions in carrying out the mundane activities of stealth, persuasion, or investigation. Instead, Mages excel at providing carefully-planned impossibilities, those selective defiances of reality that allow their teammates to pull off incredible schemes or overcome otherwise insurmountable odds.
### Class Ability: Arcane Tradition
The Mage may pick one magical tradition to represent their occult powers, as listed in this section. This tradition may give them a number of additional benefits and restrictions.