>"Mister Zal'rek? I don't feel so good." 

In the earliest stages of [[The Last War|the Great War]], the [[St책lr책d]] fabricated a viral infection that was intended to specifically target members of the [[Solassian Concordat]]. This infection, officially termed CIE 1589, was colloquially dubbed "the Spellrot". The virus was harmless to ordinary citizens, but when exposed to users of [[Magic#Arcane|Arcane magic]] it reproduced rapidly and became extraordinarily virulent, spreading from host to host through the mystical flow generated even by mere cantrips. 

Within St책lr책d territory, Spellrot outbreaks accomplished little, as magic users were spread so thin that the infection often had nowhere to go. Once released into the [[Solassian Concordat]], however, the virus proved to be more deadly than anyone could possibly have imagined, as it fed off the atmospheric magic generated by the casual and pervasive enchantments put to purpose in Solassian civilization. Hundreds of thousands died in mere months before the Solassians learned to contain its effects through Divine magic, though even this technique proved to be inadequate. The Spellrot claimed over a million lives during the War, and many more were lost to suicidal preventative measures as magic users [[Sacrifice|sacrificed]] themselves to stifle the virus's spread.

With the Great War over, the Spellrot is believed to have been killed off along with most of the world's population. In truth, mutant strains live dormant in the blood of [[Cryogenic Capsule]] occupants and in subjects of the Concordat's time bubbles.