My game is primarily about solving problems. Either I'm throwing difficult situations at you, or you're pursuing challenges to get the things your character wants. Either way, you should know how to approach those problems, and below I've listed what your problem solving priorities should be in an old-school game. Think about these in order you should only use option 2 if option 1 doesn't seem like it's going to work, for instance.

1. Using investigation and logic. Sometimes you'll have such a good understanding of the problem you're facing that you can just do something clever and nail it to the wall, without even having to roll. For instance, if a troll is following you across a wooden bridge, and you reach the other side first and light the bridge on fire, you've solved the problem and the troll falls to his death, no questions asked.
2. Using your character's unique talents. When no perfect solution presents itself, instead try to solve it [[Skill Checks|using skills]] you know your character is great at. For instance, if there's a helpful-looking lever on the opposite side of a deep chasm, it's an undue risk for the party [[Mage]] to try and jump the gap but if you're an [[Expert]] with a high Exert skill and the Specialist: Exert [[Foci|foci]], you can be pretty confident that you'll leap across just fine.
3. By applying violence intelligently. [[Combat Sequence|Combat]] in this game is risky, but sometimes it's also going to be the best way to eliminate a threat or to take something from someone. You should pursue combat whenever you can generate a large advantage. For instance, while running into a room full of goblins might just get one of you killed, throwing the door open and suddenly tossing in a wildfire explosive you prepared earlier should almost certainly result in a smattering of dead goblins.
4. By salvaging the situation the best you can. If all of the above options have been exhausted and your problem persists, not all is lost: you might just have to leverage the skills your party isn't so good at, or dive into a combat you aren't certain you can survive. Your party won't be equipped to easily deal with every problem they find, and the occasional failure is just another part of the game to be enjoyed.
5. By leaving. Your party may run into problems that are simply too risky or too difficult to complete right now; you may just have to leave, and maybe come back later when you have the skills, knowledge, or resources to tackle the problem.

> [!tip] It's not as hard as it sounds
> If all of that sounds daunting, I'll add that you don't have to be a brilliant problem-solver to play; you just have to enjoy it, and enjoy knowing that your clever decisions, or lack thereof, are significant.
