The ancient city-state of [[Eberhar]] was settled adjacent to a section of the [[Romsdal Mountains]] rich with easily accessible mineral deposits of iron and copper. The land, however, was nutrient poor, and the persistent cold weather made sustainable crop growth difficult. Eberhar was forced to rely on its metallurgy to prosper, and so began to develop a metal-focused production industry at an unusually rapid pace. In time, Eberhar compensated for its agricultural disadvantages with mass produced tools, efficient machinery, and clever logistics. The city prospered, and its explorers set off to found settlements in lands previously too inhospitable to bear.   

With continual assistance from Eberhar, these foundling cities prospered. However, the fiercely independent nature of the Eberharan citizenry combined with a lack of a central government enabled the tacit institution of a free market system. Eberhar's functional monopoly on steel production allowed them to set prices at the highest value the market could bear, with little regard for the knock-on effects that had for the ability of the foundling cities to sustain their own economies.   

Eventually, the economic pressures became too much to bear. Two of the most powerful foundling cities, Tollard and Valdishal, rallied the remaining cities together to enact trade sanctions against Eberhar. The stalemate that followed crippled the region's productive capacity, and Eberhar was forced to relent. In so doing, it was made to institute the Stålråd, a national regulatory body responsible for setting fair, sustainable prices for steel. This proved to be an effective solution.

The Stålråd remained a limited bureaucratic institution for decades, but increasingly, Eberhar and its foundling citizens began to recognize it as a core part of their cultural identity. The Stålråd's significance rapidly outshone its original purpose, and its name entered the common lexicon as a term for the pseudo-nation as a whole. The Stålrådian people saw the effectiveness of market regulation and gave more and more power to the Stålråd ruling body, until it became something remarkably similar to a central ruling government - though few Stålrådians would admit to such a thing.