The frames listed here are merely some of the more common models in use toward the end of the Mandate. Prototypes and limited-run versions doubtless exist in isolated bunkers and forgotten labs. In most Mutant Wasteland settings modular armor must be scavenged from ruins or received as a rich reward from a grateful patron. Credit costs are given for sci-fi *Stars Without Number* campaigns where the GM has decided that frames can be purchased on the open market.
## Frame models
Some of the models below have specific fittings integrated into the frame. Such integrated hardware costs no Mass or Power, and cannot be damaged unless the frame itself is destroyed.
### Scrap frame
Not so much a specific model as the usual result of kludging together the operable parts of several ruined or salvaged suits. While highly deficient compared to an original manufacture, a scrap frame can carry enough hardware to intimidate most wasteland dwellers.
### Centurion
One of the most common pre-Scream suits, Centurions were allocated to Harmony Bureau strike teams that needed more firepower than a conventional hit squad would carry. The majority of operable post-collapse suits are Centurions.
### Red Banner
Allocated to strike team leaders or special operatives, the Red Banner has upgraded computational resources to handle more sophisticated, power-hungry fittings. As a matter of prudence, Red Banner suits are outwardly identical to Centurions so as to avoid picking out command staff.
### Culverin
Issued to the boarding teams of certain Mandate Navy ships, the Culverin saw most use against pirates, smugglers, and secessionists. Onboard *Advanced Sealed Systems*, *Advanced Comm Suite*, and *Breacher Fist* fittings allow for deep-space operation, but the suits are notoriously power-hungry and cannot mount *Efficiency Core* fittings.
### Praetorian
These suits were normally worn by the personal guard of high-ranking Mandate VIPs. Big, ominous, and designed to intimidate, a Praetorian suit has upgraded quick-twitch hydraulics and integral *Advanced Comm Suite* and *Onboard Medical Unit* fittings that take up no Mass or Power. They are exceptionally hard to make inconspicuous, however, and apply a -2 penalty to any Stealth [[Skill Checks|checks]].
### Thunderbolt
Designed to be the tip of the spear during assaults on rebel strongholds, the Thunderbolt is a massive frame built to carry the heaviest available plating. Each Thunderbolt also has integral *Advanced Exoskeletal Boost*, *Breacher Fist*, and *Regenerative Force Field* fittings. The Thunderbolt’s mass can be troublesome, however, as it counts as three frames for the purpose of transport and cannot cross surfaces that can’t bear its three-hundred-kilo weight.
### Executor
The vanishingly rare Executor frames appear to have been built largely as showpieces for Directorate special agents, or possibly as theatrical costuming for the private entertainments of the elite. Some of the late-Mandate pretech involved in their construction defies any conventional analysis, but the suits were still constructed with maintenance and power limits that should have been negligible constraints for the tech involved. Every Executor is built with integral *Pretech Plating*, *Short-Ranged Warp Capacitor*, *Pretech Exoskeletal Boost*, and *Advanced Sealed Systems* fittings, quite aside from anything else that might be mounted on it.
### Long Rifle
These suits appear to have been designed for use by offworld enforcers in the frontier colonies, far from Mandate support. While the suit’s capabilities are intentionally unremarkable, it possesses incredible powers of self-repair and power generation. These suits never require maintenance or refueling and can act as a perpetual Type A power cell for one weapon or item of gear the user is carrying.
### Tarnkappe
These suits use Mandate hyperfold tech to shrink down into an anklet- or wristlet-sized bauble. When triggered as an On Turn action, the suit unfolds around the user and instantly activates, bringing its integral *Pretech Exoskeletal Boost*, *Ghost Walker Field*, and *Pretech Plating* fittings online. Any additional fittings also fold down with the suit, which can be deactivated as an On Turn action or when power runs out. While discreet, Tarnkappes lack endurance; they run for only one-fifth the time on a battery charge they otherwise would, or 24 minutes at most.