In the [[Shattered Expanse]], on the northern edge of the desert mountains, a village was founded by wasteland survivors who discovered the ruins of an intact Urzithan town. There, the settlers encountered [[Lamensyat]], who had already made the place their domain. The [[Fey]] offered protection, sustenance, and power in exchange for worship through dances with hidden meaning. 

Over two generations, the town became a thriving settlement governed by ritualized, expressive movement. Children were taught to deceive with their movements before they learned to write. Sacred performances were held to invoke rainfall, banish spirits, and ward off raiders. In time, the entire culture of the town came to revolve around the art of hidden meaning in dance.

Lamensyat grew stronger in this environment. As the people perfected their craft, the Fey’s power deepened, and the border between the town and the [[Ballroom]] thinned. Occasionally, uniquely gifted dancers were selected to join Lamensyat in their realm. This was considered to be the highest honor a supplicant could receive, though their families mourned their departure in private nonetheless.

The town's relationship with Lamensyat came to an abrupt end when a dancer offered up a dance devoid of lies. [[Grin]]'s second at the time performed a piece demonstrating unrivaled technical skill but naught in the way of deception. Lamensyat recoiled in horror at the lack of subtlety in duality, declared the village unworthy, and withdrew from the [[Material Plane]], retreating to the Ballroom and severing their bond.

In the wake of Lamensyat’s departure, the town faces imminent desolation. While the soil once blessed by Lamensyat's magical rain remains capable of growing crops, it will in time become as desolate as the rest of the Expanse. Worse yet, without Fey magic backing their intimidation dances, the town is now vulnerable to the constant threat of raiders and [[Screamer]]s that all inhabitants of the Expanse face.